# My Journey With **Owull**

This section of the documentation portion of my project is soley for the purposes of **_journaling my journey_** through the creation of **Owull** and **_explaining the thoughts behind certain decisions_**.

First, I will give you a _brief_ overview of the color choices I made and the reasons behind making them. I'm going to peel back the curtain and reveal what took place as the gears started to turn.

The first color in the spotlight is the lightest one in the pallette and makes up the majority of the background, some text and logo elements, as well as some highlights and button text. The color I'm referring to, that was chosen due to it's similarity to the color of the moon as well as that of the foam on a full glass of stout beer, is represented by the Hexcode #F4DB9D. This color is actually the third I decided on but I feel like it's the glue that holds the others together so I wanted to discuss it first. I chose this color because I wanted a lighter background color that was not white but had a high enough contrast to the other colors that it didn't need to be. I also wanted something that invoked thoughts of night and attending bars, but very subtly. The end result of that train of thought is this beige-like, slightly yellow tint that I like to refer to as **"Beer Foam"**.

The second color I would like to discuss is the darkest in the pallette and is used for the majority of the text content as well as some background elements and shadowing. This particular color was chosen due to its resemblance to the color of a stout beer or a beer bottle as well as a color I could imagine being present in an owl's feathers. It is represented by the Hexcode #361002, and has a very nice contrast to Beer Foam ( #F4DB9D ). I chose this color also due to the fact that I wanted a dark color in my pallette that felt both comfortable and unique at the same time. I wanted a color that wouldn't be offensive and wasn't as basic as black. I settled on this deep reddish brown hue that I like to call **"Oatmeal Stout"**.

Color number three on the list is one that I chose purely at random purposely to follow the theme of the application itself. I let a random color generator function that I created pick the hexcode for me. The code it randomly picked was #6B5238. This color works well with the others as a background for buttons, sidebars, and navigation elements. Its contrast is just enough to make it an accessible color and I like how it also resembles colors that I could picture very easily in an owl's feathers. Although it resembles a greyish color it is actually a dark orange tone and has a warm feel to it. It also has no previous associations that would make it an offensive color. The color itself reminds me of wet concrete or brick mortar which invokes thoughts of the city buildings like bars, and night clubs. I call this color **"Concrete"**.

The last color in my four-color pallette is used solely for graphical elements such as borders and backgrounds behind icons and bold lettering due to it's poor contrast when used in any other way in combination with the other three colors. This color is my signature as creator of the application and is the only color I used in my pallette that was previously given a name on the internet. This color is represented by the Hexcode #B7410E and has been appropriately named **"Rust"**. According to multiple sources this color has actually been used quite a bit in stage lighting and I feel it's an appropriate color to set the mood of **Owull**.

Now you have a more rounded understanding of why I chose the pallette I went with while developing my application. In my next entry I will dive into the choices I made regarding the fonts of **Owull**.
